#BirdWatch 

This is a **[Play 2.1](http://www.playframework.com)** dynamic web application written for learning the concept of **Iteratees** in combination with consuming the **[Twitter Streaming API](https://dev.twitter.com/docs/streaming-apis)** and updating a single page web app using a **[WebSocket](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455)** connection. The visualization is done through the **[D3.js](http://d3js.org)** data visualization library.

The idea behind this reactive web app is to explore processing a live stream of information using Scala and the Play Framework (making use of Akka actors). A rolling window of Tweets is analyzed in terms of certain parameters and displayed graphically. The **[d3-cloud](https://github.com/jasondavies/d3-cloud)** project by Jason Davies is used for displaying the word cloud, adapted for dynamic updates as new data comes in through the WebSockets connection. Tweets are also stored within MongoDB. Storing the Tweets in a persistent data store allows allows reasoning time periods longer than the uptime of the application.

Tweets are stored directly into MongoDB, without any intermediate case class modeling the Tweet because storing a representation of a Tweet in any form except in its entirety will almost always be wrong. Even if a perfect representation can be found for a particular point in time, it will fall short when previous data items were stored in a different format.

Mathematically speaking, let _A_ be the set with all the properties of an observable Tweet and _a_ be a positive integer with the cardinality of _A_ such that _a_ = | _A_ |.
Any case class that does not represent the entirety of the Tweet will be a member of the power set _P(A)_, combining only some of the properties / members of _A_. Now the cardinality of the power set _P_ grows large quickly: | _P_ | = 2^_a_, indicating that the chances of finding an ideal representation of the Tweet are slim at best. That being said, storage is cheap enough to allow storing the entirety of the Tweet within the database anyways.

Storing entire Tweets in the original JSON string representation is certainly possible for example with Hadoop, but it falls short in terms of quick accessibility when trying to do (near) real-time reasoning over the data for immediate browser updates. A better way for this particular application seems to be parsing the JSON string into a JsValue and storing it in its entirety within MongoDB. This way, not only is the original data preserved for further processing, but thanks to MongoDB it can always be (re-)indexed according to the current needs of the application. Case classes can still be used for convenience
within the application, but only after the entire Tweet has been stored. Any currently needed representation of the Tweet can then be changed as the need arises, while all past data also allows the conversion into the new format.

The retrieval of the Tweets and the converted profile images and their persistence into MongoDB is an ongoing process which will not change all that much as long as the Twitter data format does not change. The further reasoning over the stream of Tweets is under development though and will go through numerous recompilations in the further lifecycle of this application. The connection to Twitter would be terminated and reestablished every time this happens, making the database coverage of the stream spotty. The storage and persistence could be moved into a separate application running in another JVM In order to overcome this. Akka Remoting allows this, where the persistence application uses a remote actor reference to inform the application serving the UI only when this is actually running, while keeping the connection to Twitter open and storing Tweets and profile images with or without the processing application being reachable. This part will also be a good exercise in setting up Akka Remoting.

# License

This software is distributed under the **[Apache License 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)** (the "License"); you may not use this project except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.